README.adoc, before:

// Settings:
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -
ifndef::env-github[:icons: font]
ifdef::env-github,env-browser[]
:toc: macro
:toclevels: 1
endif::[]
ifdef::env-github[]
:branch: master
:status:
:outfilesuffix: .adoc
:!toc-title:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:important-caption: :exclamation:
:note-caption: :paperclip:
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]

http://makeapullrequest.com:[image:https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square[PRs Welcome]]
https://github.com/beryx/badass-jar-plugin/blob/master/LICENSE[image:https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg[License]]
https://travis-ci.org/beryx/badass-jar-plugin[image:https://img.shields.io/travis/beryx/badass-jar-plugin/master.svg?label=Build[Build Status]]

== Badass Jar Plugin

This plugin lets you seamlessly create modular jars that target a Java release before 9.
This way, your library can be used not only by people who build JPMS applications, but also by people who are still using Java 8 or older releases.


=== Prerequisites
The plugin works with Gradle 4 and 5 as shown in the table below:

|====
| Gradle | Java runtime | Source and target compatibility
|4.0+ | 7+ | 1.2+
|5.0+ | 8+ | 1.6+
|====

Note that your build can use Java 7 or 8, although it produces a modular jar.
This is possible because the plugin assembles the module descriptors without using the java compiler.


=== Quick start

Put the following in your `build.gradle`:
[source,groovy]
----
plugins {
    id 'java'
    id 'org.beryx.jar' version '1.1.3'
}
sourceCompatibility = 1.8
targetCompatibility = 1.8
----

To create your modular jar execute:
----
./gradlew jar
----

=== Usage

To make your library modular, you need to provide a `module-info.java` in the project's root source directory.
The plugin uses the https://github.com/javaparser/javaparser[JavaParser] to analyze this file and
the https://asm.ow2.io/[ASM] bytecode manipulation framework to generate the corresponding module descriptor.

This approach has the advantage that you don't need a Java 9+ compiler to build your modular jar.
The downside is that it cannot validate your module descriptor.
References to nonexistent packages, modules, services, or service implementations go undetected.

Therefore, it is strongly advised to ensure the validity of your module descriptor by additionally building your
project using a Java 9+ compiler with the `sourceCompatibility` and `targetCompatibility` set accordingly.
The good news is that you don't need to change your build script in order to do this.
The plugin lets you override the `sourceCompatibility` and `targetCompatibility` values by setting the
project property `javaCompatibility`:

----
./gradlew -PjavaCompatibility=9 jar
----

Note that this project property overrides both `sourceCompatibility` and `targetCompatibility` with the same value.

If the plugin detects that at least one of `sourceCompatibility` and `targetCompatibility` has an effective value >= 9,
it automatically applies the https://github.com/java9-modularity/gradle-modules-plugin[gradle-modules-plugin], which adds support for the JPMS.
That's why no changes are required to your build script when running in Java 9+ compatibility mode.

TIP: In the discussion above we considered that `sourceCompatibility` and `targetCompatibility` are
configured with pre-Java 9 values in `build.gradle` and you override them with 9+ values using the
`javaCompatibility` project property. +
You can also work the other way around: set `sourceCompatibility` and `targetCompatibility` with 9+ values
in `build.gradle` and override them with a pre-Java 9 value (via `javaCompatibility`) in order to generate
a modular jar targeted to Java releases before 9. +
Both approaches have their pros and cons.
Choose the one that suits you the most.

Typically, a https://openjdk.java.net/projects/jigsaw/spec/sotms/#module-artifacts[modular jar]
includes the `module-info.class` file in its root directory.
This causes problems for some older tools, which incorrectly process the module descriptor as if it were a normal Java class.
To provide the best backward compatibility, the plugin creates by default a
https://openjdk.java.net/jeps/238#Modular-multi-release-JAR-files[modular multi-release jar]
with the `module-info.class` file located in `META-INF/versions/9`, as shown below.

image:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/beryx/badass-jar-plugin/master/doc/multi-release-jar.png[multi-release-jar,548,200]

You can prevent the creation of a multi-release jar by setting `multiRelease` to `false` in the `jar` section of your build script:

[source,groovy]
----
jar {
    ...
    multiRelease = false
    ...
}
----

=== Examples

The following projects illustrate how to use this plugin to create modular jars targeted to pre-Java 9 releases:

- https://github.com/beryx-gist/badass-jar-example-nqueens[badass-jar-example-nqueens]: a Java library for solving the N-Queens problem.
- https://github.com/beryx-gist/badass-jar-example-nqueens-kotlin[badass-jar-example-nqueens-kotlin]: a Kotlin library for solving the N-Queens problem.

=== Acknowledgements

This plugin was heavily inspired by and includes code from
Gunnar Morling's https://github.com/moditect/moditect#adding-a-module-descriptor-to-the-project-jar[moditect] tool.

Commit message:

allow specifying the location of module-info.java

README.adoc, after:

// Settings:
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -
ifndef::env-github[:icons: font]
ifdef::env-github,env-browser[]
:toc: macro
:toclevels: 1
endif::[]
ifdef::env-github[]
:branch: master
:status:
:outfilesuffix: .adoc
:!toc-title:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:important-caption: :exclamation:
:note-caption: :paperclip:
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]

http://makeapullrequest.com:[image:https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square[PRs Welcome]]
https://github.com/beryx/badass-jar-plugin/blob/master/LICENSE[image:https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg[License]]
https://travis-ci.org/beryx/badass-jar-plugin[image:https://img.shields.io/travis/beryx/badass-jar-plugin/master.svg?label=Build[Build Status]]

== Badass Jar Plugin

This plugin lets you seamlessly create modular jars that target a Java release before 9.
This way, your library can be used not only by people who build JPMS applications, but also by people who are still using Java 8 or older releases.


=== Prerequisites
The plugin works with Gradle 4 and 5 as shown in the table below:

|====
| Gradle | Java runtime | Source and target compatibility
|4.0+ | 7+ | 1.2+
|5.0+ | 8+ | 1.6+
|====

Note that your build can use Java 7 or 8, although it produces a modular jar.
This is possible because the plugin assembles the module descriptors without using the java compiler.


=== Quick start

Put the following in your `build.gradle`:
[source,groovy]
----
plugins {
    id 'java'
    id 'org.beryx.jar' version '1.2.0'
}
sourceCompatibility = 1.8
targetCompatibility = 1.8
----

To create your modular jar execute:
----
./gradlew jar
----

=== Usage

To make your library modular, you need to provide a `module-info.java` in the project's root source directory.
The plugin uses the https://github.com/javaparser/javaparser[JavaParser] to analyze this file and
the https://asm.ow2.io/[ASM] bytecode manipulation framework to generate the corresponding module descriptor.

This approach has the advantage that you don't need a Java 9+ compiler to build your modular jar.
The downside is that it cannot validate your module descriptor.
References to nonexistent packages, modules, services, or service implementations go undetected.

Therefore, it is strongly advised to ensure the validity of your module descriptor by additionally building your
project using a Java 9+ compiler with the `sourceCompatibility` and `targetCompatibility` set accordingly.
The good news is that you don't need to change your build script in order to do this.
The plugin lets you override the `sourceCompatibility` and `targetCompatibility` values by setting the
project property `javaCompatibility`:

----
./gradlew -PjavaCompatibility=9 jar
----

Note that this project property overrides both `sourceCompatibility` and `targetCompatibility` with the same value.

If the plugin detects that at least one of `sourceCompatibility` and `targetCompatibility` has an effective value >= 9,
it automatically applies the https://github.com/java9-modularity/gradle-modules-plugin[gradle-modules-plugin], which adds support for the JPMS.
That's why no changes are required to your build script when running in Java 9+ compatibility mode.

TIP: In the discussion above we considered that `sourceCompatibility` and `targetCompatibility` are
configured with pre-Java 9 values in `build.gradle` and you override them with 9+ values using the
`javaCompatibility` project property. +
You can also work the other way around: set `sourceCompatibility` and `targetCompatibility` with 9+ values
in `build.gradle` and override them with a pre-Java 9 value (via `javaCompatibility`) in order to generate
a modular jar targeted to Java releases before 9. +
Both approaches have their pros and cons.
Choose the one that suits you the most.

==== Multi-release JAR

Typically, a https://openjdk.java.net/projects/jigsaw/spec/sotms/#module-artifacts[modular jar]
includes the `module-info.class` file in its root directory.
This causes problems for some older tools, which incorrectly process the module descriptor as if it were a normal Java class.
To provide the best backward compatibility, the plugin creates by default a
https://openjdk.java.net/jeps/238#Modular-multi-release-JAR-files[modular multi-release jar]
with the `module-info.class` file located in `META-INF/versions/9`, as shown below.

image:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/beryx/badass-jar-plugin/master/doc/multi-release-jar.png[multi-release-jar,548,200]

You can prevent the creation of a multi-release jar by setting `multiRelease` to `false` in the `jar` section of your build script:

[source,groovy]
----
jar {
    ...
    multiRelease = false
    ...
}
----

==== module-info.java location

As mentioned before, this plugin lets you create a modular jar even if you're stuck with Java 7 or 8.
However, your IDE may complain  about the presence of `module-info.java` in your source directory when using a pre-Java 9 compiler.
To avoid this situation, you can tell the plugin to retrieve the module descriptor from another location.
You do this by setting the `moduleInfoPath` property in the `jar` section of your build script:

[source,groovy]
----
jar {
    ...
    moduleInfoPath = 'src/main/module/module-info.java'
    ...
}
----


=== Examples

The following projects illustrate how to use this plugin to create modular jars targeted to pre-Java 9 releases:

- https://github.com/beryx-gist/badass-jar-example-nqueens[badass-jar-example-nqueens]: a Java library for solving the N-Queens problem.
- https://github.com/beryx-gist/badass-jar-example-nqueens-kotlin[badass-jar-example-nqueens-kotlin]: a Kotlin library for solving the N-Queens problem.

=== Acknowledgements

This plugin was heavily inspired by and includes code from
Gunnar Morling's https://github.com/moditect/moditect#adding-a-module-descriptor-to-the-project-jar[moditect] tool.
